Minjie Chen received the S.M., E.E., and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering and computer science from Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA, in 2015 and the B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 2009. He is an Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and the Andlinger Center for Energy and the Environment at Princeton University. His research interests include high-frequency power electronics, power architecture, power magnetics, advanced packaging, data-driven methods, design automation, and design methods of high-performance power electronics for emerging and important applications.

Dr. Chen is a recipient of the IEEE PELS Richard M. Bass Outstanding Young Power Electronics Engineer Award, the Princeton SEAS E. Lawrence Keyes, Jr./Emerson Electric Co. Junior Faculty Award, the NSF CAREER Award, seven IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics Prize Paper Awards, a COMPEL Best Paper Award, an ICRA Best Poster Award, three ECCE Best Demo Awards, a 3D-PEIM Rao R. Tummala Best Paper Award, an OCP Best Paper Award, a Siebel Research Award, a C3.ai Research Award, a First Place Award of Princeton Keller Center Innovation Forum, and the MIT EECS D. N. Chorafas Ph.D. Thesis Award. He is a fellow of the Franklin Institute, and was an alumni of the US National Academy of Engineering Grainger Foundation Frontiers of Engineering Forum. He was listed on the Princeton Engineering Commendation List for Outstanding Teaching multiple times. He is the Chair of PELS TC10 Design Methodologies, an Associate Editor of IEEE TPEL and JESTPE, and the TPC member of many flagship PELS conferences including APEC, ECCE, COMPEL, and ICDCM. His research team is leading the open-source MagNet community.
